# musicolology
## Corpus
The topic I want to investigate is the (quantitative) difference between music by musicians with perfect pitch vs relative pitch. In a lot of musical scenes, perfect pitch (or absolute pitch) is adored like it is some kind of godsend. On one hand, perfect pitch only means you can identify pitches quickly, which would not necessarily make you a better musician. On the other hand, using it as a tool to learn music theory faster and easily identifying pitches when playing in some kind of ensemble could really make someone a better (subjectively, of course) musician. Listening to music is not the same as playing music and identifying music is not the same either. 

It’s not hard to identify that my natural comparison groups would consist of artists (PP artists vs RP artists). However, I’m not quite sure yet as to how I want to sample these artists. Just choosing some PP artists and some RP artists would easily fall to biases, so I should definitely think a lot about how I want to sample the artists. Keeping differences that are due to genre out of the comparison will definitely be one of the biggest challenges for researching this corpus. I think the most interesting artist to research in this corpus is Jacob Collier, since he seems to have one of the most brilliant and specific absolute pitches known to humankind, and he has made some astoundingly complex music, in which absolute pitch definitely seems to have had an impact in the way he has challenged conventional music theory rules. Examples of crazy Jacob Collier songs would be Everlasting Motion (feat. Hamid El Kasri), With The Love In My Heart, etc.
A line I wrote on my local computer
